readme.md, before:

# Allegro 4.2.2 (OpenWatcom v2 Support)
========================================

This fork of mine enables OpenWatcom v2 for building Allegro 4.2.2 with CMake crosscompiling, without needing a virtual machine or a Win9x machine to build it (it needs DOSBox-X to generate `asmdef.inc`)
and no need for the flaky and unreliable [DJGPP Make crashing everytime trying to build it](http://matejhorvat.si/en/dos/allegwat/index.htm) read that convulted makefile.

see CMakeLists.txt for more information to how to build it.

## Warning!
This CMakeLists.txt is really crude and full of hacks, but still more reliable than DJGPP Make known to be prone to crashing for some reason.

Allegro 4.2.2 (DJGPP/DOS cross compiling)
=========================================

A fork of the old Allegro 4.2.2 release from July 2007, with a few minor modifications to the source to facilitate cross compiling with DJGPP.

This fork exists so that you can use Allegro to write DOS games with a version of DJGPP for a non-DOS, non-Windows system. *If you don't intend specifically to build DOS games, you should use the [latest release](http://liballeg.org/) instead!*

Originally, this version of Allegro was intended to be used with GCC 2.91.N. Some modifications have been made to make it work with GCC 5.2.0 as provided by DJGPP.

If you must compile this for a target other than DJGPP, you must edit [/include/allegro/platform/alplatf.h](https://github.com/msikma/allegro-4.2.2-xc/blob/master/include/allegro/platform/alplatf.h) and add the correct platform setting.

Usage
-----

The first step is to get a working DJGPP compiler, as per [andrewwutw's build-djgpp](https://github.com/andrewwutw/build-djgpp) instructions. This should work for Mac OS X, Linux and FreeBSD, but I've only tested it with Mac OS X. Please let me know if you can verify that this works for other OSes.

### Compiling

If you're on Mac OS X, and you've set up DJGPP correctly, it should work out of the box. On other platforms, you'll need to edit `xmake.sh` to set the correct paths.

Run `./xmake.sh lib` to compile the library. No standard make command will work.

If all goes well, a `lib/djgpp/liballeg.a` file will be generated that you can link with.

### Targeting Windows

If you're targeting Windows, you should probably not use this. Just use MinGW instead. It should be [easy to compile something that works on both Windows 10 and DOS](https://twitter.com/Sosowski/status/730563851389964293).

Patches
-------

Aside from the modifications for easier cross-compiling, the following changes were made:

* [#1 - Fix broken 8-bit Sound Blaster volume](https://github.com/msikma/allegro-4.2.2-xc/pull/1) - this was a longstanding bug with the 4.2.2 source
* [#2 - Add `-fgnu89-inline` to `asmdef.exe` target to facilitate GCC 5+](https://github.com/msikma/allegro-4.2.2-xc/pull/2)

Example
-------

There's an [Allegro DOS example](https://github.com/msikma/allegro-dos-example) repository available with a small Hello World program.

Copyright
---------

Allegro 4.2.2 is [giftware licensed](http://liballeg.org/license.html). My own modifications to the source are public domain. This repository was forked off the [liballeg/allegro5](https://github.com/liballeg/allegro5) repository, with all commit history past 2007-07-22 removed.

Commit message:

Now this fork of allegro you must provide your memory allocators instead of relying of malloc(), useful to integrate if you are using custom memory allocators and pools

readme.md, after:

# Allegro 4.2.2 (OpenWatcom v2 Support)
========================================

This fork of mine enables OpenWatcom v2 for building Allegro 4.2.2 with CMake crosscompiling, without needing a virtual machine or a Win9x machine to build it (it needs DOSBox-X to generate `asmdef.inc`)
and no need for the flaky and unreliable [DJGPP Make crashing everytime trying to build it](http://matejhorvat.si/en/dos/allegwat/index.htm) read that convulted makefile.

see CMakeLists.txt for more information to how to build it, it works with Allegro 4.2.3 (albeit the demo freezes in DOSBox-X) from this [article](http://matejhorvat.si/en/dos/allegwat/index.htm) just copy
CMakeLists.txt, the cmake/ directory, and apply the changes requested in the linked article.

Notice you still need DJGPP, but only needed to call djgpp version of GNU assembler and that's it.

## Warning!
This CMakeLists.txt is really crude and full of hacks, but still more reliable than DJGPP Make known to be prone to crashing for some reason.

Allegro 4.2.2 (DJGPP/DOS cross compiling)
=========================================

A fork of the old Allegro 4.2.2 release from July 2007, with a few minor modifications to the source to facilitate cross compiling with DJGPP.

This fork exists so that you can use Allegro to write DOS games with a version of DJGPP for a non-DOS, non-Windows system. *If you don't intend specifically to build DOS games, you should use the [latest release](http://liballeg.org/) instead!*

Originally, this version of Allegro was intended to be used with GCC 2.91.N. Some modifications have been made to make it work with GCC 5.2.0 as provided by DJGPP.

If you must compile this for a target other than DJGPP, you must edit [/include/allegro/platform/alplatf.h](https://github.com/msikma/allegro-4.2.2-xc/blob/master/include/allegro/platform/alplatf.h) and add the correct platform setting.

Usage
-----

The first step is to get a working DJGPP compiler, as per [andrewwutw's build-djgpp](https://github.com/andrewwutw/build-djgpp) instructions. This should work for Mac OS X, Linux and FreeBSD, but I've only tested it with Mac OS X. Please let me know if you can verify that this works for other OSes.

### Compiling

If you're on Mac OS X, and you've set up DJGPP correctly, it should work out of the box. On other platforms, you'll need to edit `xmake.sh` to set the correct paths.

Run `./xmake.sh lib` to compile the library. No standard make command will work.

If all goes well, a `lib/djgpp/liballeg.a` file will be generated that you can link with.

### Targeting Windows

If you're targeting Windows, you should probably not use this. Just use MinGW instead. It should be [easy to compile something that works on both Windows 10 and DOS](https://twitter.com/Sosowski/status/730563851389964293).

Patches
-------

Aside from the modifications for easier cross-compiling, the following changes were made:

* [#1 - Fix broken 8-bit Sound Blaster volume](https://github.com/msikma/allegro-4.2.2-xc/pull/1) - this was a longstanding bug with the 4.2.2 source
* [#2 - Add `-fgnu89-inline` to `asmdef.exe` target to facilitate GCC 5+](https://github.com/msikma/allegro-4.2.2-xc/pull/2)

Example
-------

There's an [Allegro DOS example](https://github.com/msikma/allegro-dos-example) repository available with a small Hello World program.

Copyright
---------

Allegro 4.2.2 is [giftware licensed](http://liballeg.org/license.html). My own modifications to the source are public domain. This repository was forked off the [liballeg/allegro5](https://github.com/liballeg/allegro5) repository, with all commit history past 2007-07-22 removed.
